There are three ways a new creature can be created.

1. Genesis

Upon creating a Chimærium account, or at any point a user desires, they can create a single celled organism, a microscopic Chimæra with no features or abilities.

This creature is called a Genecyte, and it weighs only 1 femtogram: 10^-15 g.

This creature can be used to play the ‘Primordial Soup’ game, earning algae which can be used to feed the creature.

The smaller the creature, the smaller the lifespan. Generally a Chimæra will live 1/100th as long as its real world counterpart.  

A Genecyte will only live a few minutes, so in that time you must feed and train it to make it larger, and collect the eggs it gives.

Generally eggs will weigh 1/50th of the mother’s weight.  Healthy creatures will weigh more, giving larger eggs to hatch into larger creatures. 

If fed and trained optimally, a Chimæra can create a child up to 1.5 times its size * (may vary to produce optimal experience)* 

Microscopic Chimæras reproduce asexually, so no fertilization is required at this stage.

2. Asexual Reproduction 

Up to the size of 1g, where vertebrates start to appear, all Chimæras reproduce asexually. 

Unlike true asexual reproduction, Chimæra eggs will always have some amount of diversity from their parents.

All Chimæras, except the initial Genecyte, are composed of at least two animals: A Primary Animal of its weight class, and a Secondary Animal of any weight class. Typically, Chimæras have the body of their primary animal, and features of the secondary animal.

Asexual reproduction selects the two animals in the following way:

1: Get a random microscopic animal from the current weight class to be the primary animal.

2. If the parent has a secondary animal, choose a random family of that animal, then choose a random animal from that family.

For example, if the parent is an amoeba-tiger, the secondary animal will be chosen by picking a random family of the tiger (Mammal, Carnivore, Feline), then picking a random animal from that family.



Sexual Reproduction:

Once chimaeras reach ~1mg in weight, a number of changes occur. They no longer have microscopic animals as their primary animal. They also now have genders, and require a seed from a male in order to fertilize an egg from a female.

Each egg still weighs ~1/50th of the weight of the mother when it lays the egg. 

Here is how the primary and secondary animals of the egg are determined:

Primary Animal- the list of all animals is first filtered to only include animals in the proper weight range. The 







Resource: https://resources.sdhumane.org/Programs_and_Services/Adoption_Resources/Animal_Size_and_Weight_Chart






